# TODAY I LEARNED DAY-12
  `- Since July 27, 2020, 10th Day of BootCaamp`

 ## Content
 1. Intro to Linux & Shell
 2. Shell Commands
 3. Vim Commands
 
 ### *1. Intro do Linux & Shell*
  1. **Precursors**  
    * There was OS before Linux came out and it's call UNIX.
    It was conceived and implemented in 1969, at AT&T's Bell Laboratories in the US by 'Ken Thompson', 'Dennis Ritchie', 
    'Douglas Mcllroy', and 'Joe Ossanna'.  
    * UNIX was written entirely in assembly language.  
    * In 1973, it was rewritten in the C by 'Dennis Ritchie'.  

  2. **Creation**  
    * 'Linus Torvalds' began to work on his own operating system kernel, which eventually became the Linux kernel.  
    
  3. **Linux**  
    * It is the operating System contains the GNU project libraries or the kernel developed by Linus Torvalds.  
  
  4. **Shell**  
    * It is a software that connects between 'Users' and 'OS's Kernel'.  
    * **sh(Bourne Shell)**  
    * It's the shell, which is created by 'Steve Bourne' at AT&T Bell Lab.  
    * **csh**  
    * It is also a type of shell, which is similar with C language and created by 'Bill Joy' from Berkeley.  
    * **bash(Bourne Again Shell)**  
    * It was created by '**Brian Fox**'.  
    * It is nominated as **the default shell** on other operating systems.    
    * **zsh**  
    * It was created by '**Paul Falstad**'.
    * It's the extension type of **sh**  
    
### *2. Basic Shell Command (feat. bash)*
   1. **Displaying the file contents on the terminal**  
     * *cat*  
     It is generally used to concatenate the files. It gives the output on the standard output.  
     * *more*  
     It is a filter for paging through text one screenful at a time.  
     * *less*
     It is used to viewing the files instead of opening the file. Similar to more command but it allows backward 
     as well as forward movement.  
     * *head*  
     Used to print the first N lines of a file. It accepts N as input and the default value of N is 10.  
     * *tail*
     Used to print the last N-1 lines of a file. It accepts N as input and the default value of N is 10.  
   
   2. **File and Directory Manipulation Commands**  
    * *mkdir*  
    Used to creat a directory if not already exist. It accepts directory name as input parameter.  
    * *cp*  
    It will copy the files and directories from source path to destination path. It can copy a file/directory with new 
    name to the destination path. It accepts source file/directory and destination file/directory.  
    * *mv*  
    Used to move the files or directories.  
    * *rm*  
    Used to remove files or directories.  
    * *touch*
    Used to create or update a file.  
    
   3. **Extract, sort and filter data Commands**  
    * *grep*  
   This command is used to search for the specified text in a file.  
    * *grep with Regular Expressions*  
   Used to search for text using specific regular expressions in file.
    * *sort*  
   This commands is used to sort the contents of files.  
    * *wc*  
   Used to count the number of characters, words in a file.  
    * *cut*  
   Used to cut a specified part of a file.  
   
   4. **Basic Terminal Navigation Commands**  
    * *ls*  
    To get the list of all the files or folders.  
    * *cd*  
    Used to change the directory.  
    * *du*  
    Show disk usage.  
    * *pwd*    
    Show the present working directory.  
    * *man*  
    Used to show the manual of any command present in Linux.  
    * *rmdir*  
    It is used to delete a directory if it is empty.  
    * *ln file1 file2*  
    Creates physical link.  
    * *ln -s file1 file2*  
    Creates symbolic link.  
    
   5. **File Permissions Commands**  
    * *chown*  
    Used to change the owner of file.    
    * *chgrp*  
    Used to change the group owner of file.  
    * *chmod*  
    Used to modify the access/permission of a user.  
    [Referred : Source](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/basic-shell-commands-in-linux/)
    
## *3. VIM*
  * Generally, I learned how to use Vim on the terminal. However, I am not still familiar with VIM and terminal yet. 
  So I will practice how to use it fluently.  
  * using VIM, we can edit the files internally.  
 
## *4. GIT*
 1. Characteristics of git  
  * It has a simple structure and reacts fast.  
  * It supports the scattered type of storage.  
  * It is possible to develop nonlinearly.  
  
 2. Pros  
  * Increasing the productivity.  
  * It is managed per commit.  
  * Developer can work without internet. 
   
    
     